>> Will Sentance: The problem is though,
but if ever I wanna test,
is my code working right,
do I need to load up to Amazon's computer?
Wait for it to load up, okay,
we're good to go and open the website now.
Michael, do you mind just
opening twitter.com and
checking my website is working?
Did I get the right request?
I handled it, no,
I sent back the wrong one.
Hold on, Michael, can you just stay there
and open it again in three minutes?
Now, we definitely don't have to do that.
So we want to do it all on our computer.
Both the being Michael
sending a message to
the computer that's got the open
connection to the Internet ready to listen
for your messages, running node.
Running JavaScript to listen
to the message, look at it,
send back the right data.
We wanna do that on the same computer
in our dream world as actually loading
the website to look at that,
to send a message to that computer.
>> Will Sentance: Let's see if that's
possible, have a look at this.
So I'm on my computer,
they call this my development machine.
It's my computer which I'm developing.
Here's what I do.
>> Will Sentance: I load up,
>> Will Sentance: Node,
it turns on the JavaScript engine.
It turns on the node C++ features.
And it turns on the computer's internals.
>> Will Sentance: Internals,
there it is, okay.
>> Will Sentance: I set up the open
channel to the Internet, right,
the open channel to the Internet at port,
well open channel to the Internet socket.
Now in theory, if I wanted to run and test
whether I was waiting messages correctly
and ready to send them back correctly
I'd need a totally separate,
Michael you need to send
a message to my computer, right,
to see if I get a message in and
send something back.
That would be ridiculous.
I'd have to do that.
I'd have to sit calling Michael to send
messages to my computer the whole time,
to see if something is coming in.
>> Will Sentance: So the designers of
operating systems realized this was
ridiculous.
So they invented a feature, I'm sorry.
They invented a feature that
allows us to open our web browser
on the same computer we're running,
our node app, open our web browser.
Open not through the .com, but
a special domain name called local host.
>> Will Sentance: And then put,
I don't know, tweet three or whatever.
And it's gonna send out a message,
not to the Internet.
But it's a special domain
name that loops straight
back in to our own computer
where we were listening.
It loops it straight back in.
By the way,
local host has a domain especially
an IP address 127.0.0.1.
And this allows us people
to write code to set up
our server to open
the socket on our computer.
But to have the ability to access
our own computer by not having to
go to another computer, open twitter.com
that sends a message to our computer.
But do it from our own computer with
a special built into our operating system
domain name, local host that loops
us right back into our own computer.
That sends the sends the outbound HTTP
message not out into the Internet,
but straight back to our own computer.
And we have a special IP address that
references from inside our own computer.
References our own computer,
it's 127.0.0.1,
which has a domain name so
you don't have to remember it, local host.
Here's a problem,
we tend not to want to use the port 80,
that's the entry point 80 that's used
default for the browser going out.
Instead, we want to use any one of
the numbers of the 64,000 entry points we
can use.
And people tend to use set from
JavaScript 3000 silly ones like this.
I don't know why they do this and
then we set the port up here
to be listening on port 3000.
We have 64,000 options, right?
And but that means what port does
the browser default to sending out from
Michael?
>> Michael: 80.
>> Will Sentance: 80 but if we're not
gonna be entering at that point into our
own computer we better declare when
we send out with the help of a colon
the exact port that we're gonna send
out that we expect it to come in at.
And we put it in there.
And that means,
we can send out a little HTTP message,
which never really even
leaves our computer.
By the way, in the old days, before this
was built into your operating system,
they used to literally take a wire
out the back of the computer, and
loop it back into the machine.
But now it's part of
the operating system so
the message doesn't even
leave the computer.
It comes straight back in and enters.
And that's gonna allow you people
to both write your code for
your server to listen and
receive messages and send stuff back.
But also test it's working
by opening the domain name that
accesses your own computer directly.
Cuz remember,
what is a computer that's a server?
All it is is an open channel
through the computer's networking,
see I do not write from this side,
networking internal feature that you
set up from JavaScript via node.
That's all it is.
That's all it is computed with an open
channel with those three lines instead of
the open channel,
the open network, the open socket.
.And set the right port.
And then we get to access our
own computer's open channel
using that domain name.
And that's what we're gonna
do in the pair programming.
Okay, I think it's what I said here.
What about testing our server?
Do you need to load the code to
be run on AWS to test it live?
No, operating system developers, that's
the people who built this whole computer,
included the loop back feature,
with local host as a pseudo domain.
A pretend domain name that sends out your
message not out to the Internet, but
straight back into your own computer.
This is what we'll be doing
in the pair programming.